---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Features and Requirements

## Wardrobe Tracker
One of the core features of the application is that the user is able to upload images to the MongoDB database and then later retrieve those images.

**An authenticated user should be able to**
* Upload an image 
  * Of any size (within HTML payload limit)
  * Of type .jpg or .png
* View a mini version of the image in a customized "wardrobe" page
* View the original image in the original uploaded size
## Label prediction
Whenever a user uploads an image, that image will be processed through a machine learning pipeline.

The model that the image will be processed through is loosely derived from VGG16, a machine learning kernel that is popular for image processing. Detail on the training of the model can be found [at this .ipynb file](../../../model/src/ModelTraining3.ipynb) and are covered in the system overview and system block diagram.

The user is able to then see labels (Ex. ["Blouse","Dress","Striped","Jeans","T-Shirt",...]) for each of their fashion pieces, allowing them to see at a glance what types of clothes and color palettes they have in their closet.
## Palette prediction
Whenever a user uploads an image, that image will be processed through an sklearn-based color detection algorithm. The algorithm will determine where the subject is in an image, and determine the 3 most representatives colors of the image, or a palette.

The user is able to then see the palettes of their uploaded images, and determine whether their wardrobe is lacking in some color or to brain storm what colors go well together.

## Discover Page based predictions
When a user likes an image from our recommendation dataset of 40,000 images, that image will be added to the users wardrobe. All of these images have labels that were inherited from the Deep Fashion dataset. The color palette for all of these images were batch computed using the methods shown [at this .ipynb file](../../../model/src/ColorDetectionBatch.ipynb) and added to the MongoDB database. 

## Piece-wise Recommendations

### See Pieces Like this
On each of the users uploaded pieces, they should be able to click a link which allows them to see other fashion pieces like theirs.

The results of clicking on this link will be determine based off of the labels generated by the `ImagePredictionMicroservice`.

In order to determine similarity, the recommendation algorithm takes in two parameters, "palette" and "labels". It recommends items with the goal of finding items with similar labels and palettes. The recommendation algorithm is powered by a MongoDB Aggregation pipeline, details are in the System overview document.

### See Complementary Pieces
On each of the users uploaded pieces, they should be able to click a link which allows them to see pieces which have complementary colors .

A set of colors is considered complementary if the colors are not too similar to one another and the two colors together create an ideal distribution of neutral and bright colors.


## Liking / Disliking

A user will be able to view the collection of 40,000 reference images and then "Like" or "Dislike" these images. The user is then able to see their liked images on their home page. Similar to the uploaded pieces, they will be able to view both "Items like this" and "Items that would go well with this" for any of the liked images.

## Accounts

There will be a user system such that.

A user will be able to
* Create a new account with email, first name, last name, and password field
* Upload content specific to their account
* Like items specifc to their account
* Sign out of their account
* Sign back into their account

Additionally, the passwords of the users will never be stored in plain text.

### Seperation of Data
The Fashion Finder application will separate the data of different users to ensure a private browsing experience. Users will only be able to see images that they have uploaded and images that they have liked. Users will not be able to see the images, labels, or color palettes of other users.
