---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# System Overview
## Project Abstract
The Fashion Finder progressive web application is for individuals who are interested in finding a more efficient and cost effective way to shop online. Fashion Finder will be primarily used for shopping on the website or mobile app called StockX (stockx.com) where item prices can flucuate frequently resulting in a lot of confusion for its users due to the fact that it is very hard to figure out if the items they are interested in are being sold at a fair price. Fashion Finder will also serve features that are not available anywhere else, which is to help its users find entire outfit recommendations, rather than just suggested items based on their most recent search history.

In order to acquire the data needed to provide accurate outfit suggestions users will be displayed content pulled from Pinterest. When they scroll through the content that is displayed they will be able to like the items that they are interested, which will help us to create a content feed more tailored to each specific user. The more content a user likes the better our algorithms will be able to create accurate outfit suggestions for each user. Along with creating completely new outfit suggestions and displaying those to a user, Fashion Finder will also be able to take items that a user already owns, and be able to match those articles of clothing to other pieces that would go well together in an outfit. All items suggested will be cross checked with StockX to see if they are available on their website and a price evaluation will be done on each item. Some of these items might not be available on StockX, but they will still be suggested to the user if that user has selected the option to view outsider products also, where they can then look around to find where to purchase that item themselves.

After an item has been cross checked with StockX to see if it is available on their website, you can select that you are interested in that item to continue tracking the price of the item. As soon as you start to track an item our software begins to collect data in order to find out when an item is at a good price for you to make a purchase. Initially when you track an item Fashion Finder will be able to provide several statistics to a user on the price of that item such as its 12 month trade price, all-time trade range, the volatility, number of sales, price premium, and the average sale price. The longer you track an item the more accurate these statistics will become along with being able to view a graphic chart showing exactly every sale of that item. If you are tracking an item and decide to receive notifications once an item in your size drops to a fair market price you will be the first to receive an update and this will help you to save money on the clothing your most interested in.

The main goal behind this project is to help our users to shop in the most efficient way possible.  Through the help of our users by liking all the clothing they are interested in we use machine learning to then put together outfits that go well together, but also that they will be highly interested in.  Along with figuring out the correct clothing that each user desires our goal is to help them to find the best price to buy each of these products.  Fashion finder will not only eliminate the need to search multiple websites for clothing options, but also eliminates the need to second guess if you are getting a good deal on the clothing your interested in buying.  For the ease of the user Fashion Finder is a progressive web application, meaning our software will be able to run on both a web browser, or as a mobile application. 


# Conceptual Design
  With this project being a progressive web application it will be developed as a web application, with the purpose of being used on Android or Google mobile devices.  All data saved for machine learning, calculating statistics, and user logins will be saved to a SQL Database. The primary language for pulling data from the SQL database will be python, and the use of the TensorFlow's python library will be used for machine learning purposes.  The design of our user interface will be done using the MatPlotLib python library, along with the use of bootstrap's web development toolkit. For the purpose of generating content to our users we plan to use the PinterestAPI (https://developers.pinterest.com/), and for grabbing data off StockX we will be using an open source StockX api created by a fellow GitHub user (https://github.com/matthew1232/stockx-api).  

## Background
  There is no software relatable to Fashion Finder except for many basic versions which are implemented on nearly every retail website.  Most retail websites use simple algorithms to make suggestions to their users, typically collecting a cache of all of their recently viewed products, and forming suggestions based on similar brand, article of clothing, or color.  Unlike typical retail websites we plan to create an application that will pull fashion ideas from the millions of creaters on Pinterest, instead of just one specific website.  Through our users liking specific items of content we display we can tailor their content feed closer to what they want, while also suggesting entire outfit ideas instead of single articles of clothing.  Along with doing this we will provide a price analysis on the products that are listed on StockX, something that no retail company would ever do.  Most retail websites only collect data on a users cache which has to do with their current browsing session.  We plan to allow users to create accounts to collect data over a period of time to fully understand the clothing they actually like.    
